Homework: Three Projects

1) Antonin Fourneau's Water Light Graffiti

I have a personal fondness for Water Light Graffiti because I experienced it first hand at the Lumina Light Festival in Cascais, Portugal in 2014. The install site was in the center of a humble, otherwise sleepy plaza of this beach town known for its surf. Despite it being a festival with hoards of foot traffic plowing through the town, my experience was surprisingly intimate, enough that I had the chance to pick the brains of the artist's assistants. One of them said that Fourneau was inspired by a trip he took to India, where one day he drew with water on the sand and watched it slowly fade away. I used a heavily soaked large rounded paint brush to write across the entirety of the sensor filled canvas. The more water, the brighter the LEDs, and watching it drip down the screen felt very satisfying. The fleeting and impermanence of my physical interaction with it was meditative, something I naturally appreciate and gravitate towards. 
I included two videos: the first where I write "Square Sky" across the screen (my partner and I created this pseudonym for our lighting festival / traveling blog); the second where a younger Nicole tries to figure out how to be a part of this lighting tech community. 

I'm still a bit confused how the water completes an electric circuit, but I like that paradox. Where do I get those LEDs? Are they similar to the ones on the inflatable airplane safety vests? I looked it up and see that it's popular for scuba gear, but how can we make our own?


2) MIT Tangible Media Group's Materiable

This visual and tactile physics simulation explores the material properties of flexibility, elasticity, and viscosity. I especially like the viscosity test because I want to incorporate water-esque elements in future projects. To create a similar project, I would look into slide potentiometers, or maybe very sensitive load sensors. The physical components seem more straightforward to wrap my head around, but writing out a Processing sketch for this physics simulation sounds like it would involve playing around with the transitions between varying sine waves to replicate ripples. 

3) Random International's Rain Room

I was lucky enough to experience this one in person as well when it was installed at the MoMa in 2013. I remember it was a warm, sunny day waiting outside in a sizeable line. Once I was in, the cool trapped air in this dark room felt so refreshing. They would let in about 10 people at a time to experience the Rain Room, illuminated by a singular light at one end, metal grates below that were similar to those above subways on city sidewalks, and of course the rain falling from above. I loved the darkness, masking any reveal of fabrication, thus emphasizing this lure of technical magic. I always wondered how I could make a smaller version of this for myself. Now, I'd say a bunch of infrared break-beam sensors would receive Boolean data, then controlling the water flow. I'd like to know what kind of filtration and pumps they used. I think the challenge for me is how to most efficiently control the actual water flow. At first I thought it would be a complex matrix of active individual arteries with valves corresponding with the IR data. Or could it be a passive process with one giant tub with precisely drilled holes, and solenoids with rubber plugs to block the holes when the IR beam is broken?